# Web 3.0 Security Learning

# What is Ethereum?
[What Is Ethereum? | AWS Blockchain](https://aws.amazon.com/blockchain/what-is-ethereum/)
[Smart Contract Security | Ethereum Foundation Blog](https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/06/10/smart-contract-security)

# Smart Contract Security Audit blog
[Smart Contract Security | Ethereum Foundation Blog](https://blog.ethereum.org/2016/06/10/smart-contract-security)

# Immunefi Security
[Immunefi](https://immunefi.com/learn/)
[useWeb3.xyz · Learn Web3 development](https://www.useweb3.xyz/)

## Types of Smart Contract Accounts in Ethereum
There are two main types of accounts on the Ethereum blockchain: externally owned accounts and contract accounts.
An externally owned account is when a user creates a public address and maintains a private key associated with that address. This address can hold ether and interact with contracts on the blockchain. A typical address, based on hexadecimal format, looks like this: 0xb794f5ea0ba39494ce839613fffba74279579268. EOA is controlled by a private key, has no associated code, and can send transactions.
A contract account, on the other hand, has a public address on the network and also contains smart contract code. A contract account has an associated code that executes when it receives a transaction from an EOA. A contract account cannot initiate transactions on its own. Transactions must always originate from an EOA.

## Fungible vs Non-fungible tokens
[The Difference Between Fungible and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)](https://medium.com/udonis/the-difference-between-fungible-and-non-fungible-tokens-nfts-123df237b892)
## Get started with smart contract deployment
How do you get started with a Solidity developer environment? HackerNoon has one of the better guides to setting up the environment, using the basics of Solidity, deploying your first smart contract, and accessing that contract through any modern web browser. For quickly running test contracts without having to set up a full environment on your own system, you can also use Remix, a browser-based IDE.

### Ownership
- OpenZeppelin’s Ownable library

## ********************************************************************Design flaw in Ownership by design********************************************************************
Ownership can also be abused, such as in the case where an owner of a token can arbitrarily create an unlimited number of tokens, and also where you accidentally allow users to call functions that should be reserved for an admin.

## **ERC Standards - (Ethereum request for comment)**
1. The most common standard is **ERC-20,** and it describes the rules that smart contract tokens have to follow. In simple terms, an ERC-20 token is a fungible token, meaning that it functions like a $20 bill. Every $20 bill can be exchanged for another $20 bill. They are interchangeable. One of the reasons why this standard was created was to give some kind of clear and consistent logic to the proliferation of tokens on the blockchain operating according to different rules and creating chaos.
2. Another common standard that is seeing a lot of use is **ERC-721**, which is a non-fungible token standard. Unlike in the ERC-20 standard, in this case, tokens are not interchangeable, which creates all kinds of interesting use cases. This standard is used to establish authenticity of ownership over scarce digital resources, like collectibles or art.

## ****Reentrancy Vulnerability****
[Hack Solidity: Reentrancy Attack | HackerNoon](https://hackernoon.com/hack-solidity-reentrancy-attack)
[DASP - TOP 10](https://dasp.co/)
## ****Integer Overflows and Underflows****
Incorrect use of arithmetic in smart contracts can lead to integer overflow or integer underflow. In simple terms, an overflow is when there’s an output larger than allowed and an underflow is when there’s an output smaller than is allowed. If overflows and underflows aren’t accounted for in the code, then inputs and outputs will be vulnerable to attack.
In Ethereum, an unsigned integer (uint) can range anywhere from 0 to 115792089237316195423570985008687907853269984665640564039457584007913129639935, which is the maximum uint value of (2^256)-1. An overflow, then, is when 1 is added to that limit, at which point the overflow pushes the number back to 0. An underflow is when 1 is subtracted from 0, pushing the number from 0 to the top, which is 115792089237316195423570985008687907853269984665640564039457584007913129639935.
You can see that an underflow attack is most practical. If a user has a balance of 0 and sends a token, the balance will revert to ~10^77, which then can be sent to a wallet. The things to look for are: who has access to the uint? How much can it be incremented at a time? Is the uint a smaller data type like uint8 or uint 16?
Generally, the best way to fix this is to just use Open Zeppelin’s safe math library or use at least version 0.8.0, as overflow/underflow checks were added into Solidity. However, these checks often increase gas usage (transaction fees), and so many developers disable these checks, which is bad practice.

## **Front-running**
Since the blockchain is radically transparent, unconfirmed transactions sit in the mempool and are visible before they are confirmed and placed in a block. This presents a problem if a particular smart contract performs functions based on transactions received in a particular order. If several unconfirmed transactions are both in the mempool and visible, this raises the possibility that higher transaction fees (transaction fees are referred to as gas) could be paid to prioritize certain transactions over others. There are at least three different types of front-running: displacement, insertion, and suppression. This is one of the most difficult problems to fix. You can read more about front-running at ConsenSys’ guide on Known Attacks and from security researcher Samczsun

# **[Satoshi Nakomoto’s original Bitcoin whitepaper](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/bitcoin/)**
[Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/bitcoin/)
[The Auditooor Grindset](https://www.zellic.io/blog/the-auditooor-grindset)
